ontological truth is the description of
what is really there it's an ideal we
can't have a perfect description we
don't have a method for finding once and
for all
final descriptions of reality but this
is a wonderful thing
it means the quest for knowledge is
infinite as David Deutsch has explained
we make progress forever we don't find a
final fact about reality and just stop
and say well that's it no more needs to
be known about this we know everything
there is to know about this that day
happily will never come we can always
improve things this means we must try to
show which of our ideas are wrong and
how and so this is the best thing you
can do to help progress along you don't
need to be a great philosopher a
quick-thinking mathematician or a
creative scientist you just need to be a
critic critics have a bad reputation
probably from movies or whatever but
they don't deserve it there are two
equally important ways to be in the
world when it comes to progress you can
be a creator and you can be a critic we
are all both of these at various times
and both are absolutely essential to
creating knowledge creation can result
in improvements and that's great
producing something new can be
exhilarating but that again is just a
feeling just because you're excited
about a new creation doesn't mean you've
actually produced anything of value you
can be wrong you might very well be
right about your new creation you'll
earn fame or money or social cachet
you'll solve your problem importantly
your new idea might spread some new art
that's beautiful
or more incisive might make you rich or
famous some new scientific discovery to
overturn an old theory could solve some
problem previously a stumbling block to
progress and you might improve the world
but sometimes new creations lead to dead
ends that's just part of the creative
process creating stuff that just doesn't
do what you want it to that's not good
music that no one will listen to YouTube
videos that no one will watch a painting
that everyone says is derivative a
scientific theory quickly signed by an
experiment that shows it to be wrong
a computer game no one wants to play
criticism is how we sift those good
ideas from the bad the beautiful from
the ugly the true from the false and the
useful from the useless and this is true
for ideas generally and for your own
ideas personally criticize your own
ideas and don't be upset when others
criticize your ideas they are not
criticizing you personally you are not
your ideas you merely have ideas you can
discard ideas and you can criticize
criticisms you can defend your ideas
that's good too if you want to get
better as fast as possible create
criticize and repeat so what am i
progress